# Changelog

All notable changes to the `strelka` module will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [1.0] - 2020-06-03

This release was authored by Helena Winata.

- `_strelka_run` outputs to a directory because strelka creates vcf files in `${STRELKA_ANALYSIS_PATH}/results/variants`
- `_strelka_dispatch` is used to call outputs based on the `{pair_status}` wildcard since outputs files are automatically generate.
    - somatic workflow outputs `somatic.snvs.vcf.gz` and `somatic.indels.vcf.gz`
    - germline workflow outputs `variants.vcf.gz`
- It is recommended to run Strelka with [candidatesSmallIndels.vcf] (https://github.com/Illumina/strelka/blob/v2.9.x/docs/userGuide/README.md#capabilities) from Manta variant caller.
    - Specify the `candidateSmallIndels.vcf` file under `CFG["inputs"]["candidate_small_indel"]` or use `null` to run without `candidateSmallIndels`

 - to use `candidateSmallIndels.vcf` generated by manta from `lcr-modules`, use the vcf file in the `99-outputs` subdirectory and the path should look like:
    `<root_output_dir>/manta-2.2/99-outputs/vcf/{seq_type}--{genome_build}/candidateSmallIndels/{tumour_id}--{normal_id}--{pair_status}.candidateSmallIndels.vcf`

## [1.1] - 2020-08-06

Update by Ryan Morin
 - added "bam" resource to allow users to limit concurrent jobs for the I/O heavy rule. Make use of this by running snakemake with --resources bam=50 for a reasonable job load


## [1.1] - 2020-08-17
 - switched to leaving vcfs as bgzip-compressed at all times. 
 - Use bcftools for filtering (instead of Awk).  
 - A lot of tweaks to get bcftools to behave with these files (includes a sorting step)
 - Tabix indexes are made for all outputs
 - Step to combine indel and snv into one "combined" output file
 - Only the filtered vcfs are merged and ultimately symlinked (along with their tbi files)
 - Output files are all named based on sample instead of having the same name and being separated by subdirectories. Avoids future issues with files being relocated. 
